DEVELOPER_NOTES.md, before:

# Developer Notes

## Tool Action Outbox

Forgekeeper now persists pending tool actions to guarantee delivery. Every call
made through `execute_tool_call` is first written as a JSON file in
`forgekeeper/outbox/` before being executed. After the tool completes, the file
is removed.

On startup the outbox is scanned and any leftover actions are replayed. This
ensures that actions queued before an unexpected shutdown are not lost.

To manually work with the outbox:

- Use `forgekeeper.outbox.write_action(call)` to persist a call.
- Call `forgekeeper.outbox.replay_pending(handler)` with a function that accepts
a call dictionary to process any outstanding actions.

The outbox directory is ignored by Git and may be safely deleted between runs.

## Inline Function Call Syntax

Some language models may not support structured `function_call` fields. For
those models, Forgekeeper recognizes a simplified textual convention:

```
call: function_name(arg=value, ...)
```

Arguments follow Python keyword syntax and are converted into a dictionary
before being dispatched through the functions registry. Prompt templates should
describe this pattern so models know how to invoke tools.

## Episodic Memory Emotion Tags

Each call to `forgekeeper.memory.episodic.append_entry` may include an
``emotion`` string in addition to ``sentiment``. The emotion tag captures the
assistant's reported feeling about the task and is stored in
``.forgekeeper/memory/episodic.jsonl``. The browsing utilities display both
sentiment and emotion for recent entries to aid debugging and reflection.
## Startup Flags and Debugging

Use the root wrappers to start the stack and enable verbose diagnostics:

- PowerShell: `pwsh ./start.ps1 -Verbose [-RequireVLLM] [-VLLMWaitSeconds 120]`
- Bash: `./start.sh --debug [--require-vllm] [--vllm-wait-seconds 120]`

These set `DEBUG_MODE=true` and print additional logs. With the strict flags, startup waits for the local vLLM server (`/healthz`) before launching other services; without them, startup proceeds after a brief wait.

Commit message:

docs: add thoughts and reflection notes

DEVELOPER_NOTES.md, after:

# Developer Notes

## Tool Action Outbox

Forgekeeper now persists pending tool actions to guarantee delivery. Every call
made through `execute_tool_call` is first written as a JSON file in
`forgekeeper/outbox/` before being executed. After the tool completes, the file
is removed.

On startup the outbox is scanned and any leftover actions are replayed. This
ensures that actions queued before an unexpected shutdown are not lost.

To manually work with the outbox:

- Use `forgekeeper.outbox.write_action(call)` to persist a call.
- Call `forgekeeper.outbox.replay_pending(handler)` with a function that accepts
a call dictionary to process any outstanding actions.

The outbox directory is ignored by Git and may be safely deleted between runs.

## Inline Function Call Syntax

Some language models may not support structured `function_call` fields. For
those models, Forgekeeper recognizes a simplified textual convention:

```
call: function_name(arg=value, ...)
```

Arguments follow Python keyword syntax and are converted into a dictionary
before being dispatched through the functions registry. Prompt templates should
describe this pattern so models know how to invoke tools.

## Episodic Memory Emotion Tags

Each call to `forgekeeper.memory.episodic.append_entry` may include an
``emotion`` string in addition to ``sentiment``. The emotion tag captures the
assistant's reported feeling about the task and is stored in
``.forgekeeper/memory/episodic.jsonl``. The browsing utilities display both
sentiment and emotion for recent entries to aid debugging and reflection.
 
## Thoughts & Reflection

Forgekeeper maintains an internal stream of thoughts that can optionally be
shown to the user.

* `thoughts/generator.py` builds prompts from the current state and goals,
  logs each thought, and flags when a thought should be exposed.
* `thoughts/loop.py` runs the background `RecursiveThinker` thread which
  generates thoughts, surfaces flagged items through `expose`, and periodically
  triggers reflection and summarization.
* `thoughts/summary.py` condenses recent thoughts into a summary with an
  emotion tag. The latest summary is stored via `get_last_summary` and used to
  seed memory-aware prompts.
* `thoughts/__init__.py` re-exports these utilities for convenient imports.

Public versus private thoughts are controlled by
`forgekeeper/app/chats/think_aloud.py`. It records user consent with
`grant_think_aloud_consent`, toggles think-aloud mode via `set_think_aloud`,
and reports the current status through `request_think_aloud`. When think-aloud
is enabled, thoughts marked for exposure are surfaced through the user
interface.

Each call to `summarize_thoughts()` feeds the memory system. Services such as
`reflective_ask_core` include the returned summary and emotion tag when
assembling prompts, allowing past reasoning to influence future responses.
## Startup Flags and Debugging

Use the root wrappers to start the stack and enable verbose diagnostics:

- PowerShell: `pwsh ./start.ps1 -Verbose [-RequireVLLM] [-VLLMWaitSeconds 120]`
- Bash: `./start.sh --debug [--require-vllm] [--vllm-wait-seconds 120]`

These set `DEBUG_MODE=true` and print additional logs. With the strict flags, startup waits for the local vLLM server (`/healthz`) before launching other services; without them, startup proceeds after a brief wait.
