tasks.md, before:

# ✅ Forgekeeper Tasks

## 🚦 Milestone Status

| Milestone | Status |
|-----------|--------|
| Core | Done |
| Automation | Done |

This file tracks current, pending, and completed tasks for Forgekeeper development. Tasks may be fulfilled manually by Cody or automatically by Forgekeeper itself as capabilities improve.

---

## 🛠️ Active Tasks


---

## ⏳ Backlog

- [x] Expose task insertion utility via CLI for manual task creation
- [x] FK-201: Transactional outbox for resolvers (P1)
- [x] FK-105: Test commit check command selection (P1)
- [x] FK-106: Test task queue prioritization (P1)
- [x] FK-107: Validate episodic memory logging (P1)
- [x] FK-108: Test mark_done_if_merged flow (P1)
- [x] FK-109: Test LocalEmbedder storage and retrieval (P1)

---

## ✅ Completed

- [x] Improve multi-agent planning and delegation across tasks
- [x] Pin Python and Node dependencies for reproducible installs
- [x] Provide cross-platform setup script to automate environment creation
- [x] Complete tasks independently with user review
- [x] Self-reflect on outcomes using internal memory module
- [x] Persist reflections to a long-term memory log
- [x] Create `AGENTS.md` file to document agent roles
- [x] Implement file summarization module
  *Use LLM or parser to summarize the purpose and structure of each code file.*

- [x] Analyze codebase relevance to a task prompt
  *Map files to a user-defined prompt using file summaries.*

- [x] Generate code edits based on prompt
  *Create modified versions of files that fulfill task intent.*

- [x] Stage and commit edits with explanation
  *Use diffs to stage and describe changes before pushing.*

- [x] Enable multi-agent task handoff
- [x] Add prompt validation to guard against injection attacks
- [x] Run a recursive self-review loop
  *Evaluate whether code changes fulfill the original task prompt.*
- [x] Integrate linting and test validation before commits

- [x] Enable Forgekeeper to pull tasks from this file and complete them autonomously
- [x] Enhance code edit generation with real modifications
  *Replace TODO scaffolds with LLM-generated code changes.*

- [x] Connect summarization, analysis, editing, and commit modules into an end-to-end self-edit pipeline

- [x] Use stored memories to refine future task selection and execution
- [x] Generate follow-up tasks based on reflection outcomes
- [x] Summarize task success and emotional feedback into memory
- [x] Add unit tests for task insertion utility

- [x] Add “undo last task” recovery mode
  *Implemented via `TaskPipeline.undo_last_task`.*

- [x] Design multi-step planning framework for complex tasks
- [x] Implement cross-file validation for code edits
---

## Canonical Tasks

---
id: FK-103
title: Consolidate test directories (P2)
status: done
epic: R-001
owner: agent
labels: [dx, tests]
---
Move all test modules into a unified `tests/` directory and update references.

**AC**
- [x] All tests reside under `tests/`
- [x] CI and imports point to the new location

---
id: FK-104
title: Skip backend smoke test when prerequisites missing (P2)
status: done
epic: R-001
owner: agent
labels: [reliability, tooling]
---
Make `smoke_backend.py` detect missing `backend/`, `npm`, or `node` and exit gracefully. See skip logic in `tools/smoke_backend.py`.

**AC**
- [x] Smoke test exits 0 with skip message when environment absent
- [x] self_review treats skipped state as neutral

Commit message:

test: adjust roadmap committer tests for sprint planner

tasks.md, after:

# ✅ Forgekeeper Tasks

## 🚦 Milestone Status

| Milestone | Status |
|-----------|--------|
| Core | Done |
| Automation | Done |

This file tracks current, pending, and completed tasks for Forgekeeper development. Tasks may be fulfilled manually by Cody or automatically by Forgekeeper itself as capabilities improve.

Sprint plans are generated from active goals and the tasks in this file using `forgekeeper/sprint_planner.py`. The resulting `SprintPlan.md` is reviewed alongside periodic roadmap commits.

---

## 🛠️ Active Tasks


---

## ⏳ Backlog

- [x] Expose task insertion utility via CLI for manual task creation
- [x] FK-201: Transactional outbox for resolvers (P1)
- [x] FK-105: Test commit check command selection (P1)
- [x] FK-106: Test task queue prioritization (P1)
- [x] FK-107: Validate episodic memory logging (P1)
- [x] FK-108: Test mark_done_if_merged flow (P1)
- [x] FK-109: Test LocalEmbedder storage and retrieval (P1)

---

## ✅ Completed

- [x] Improve multi-agent planning and delegation across tasks
- [x] Pin Python and Node dependencies for reproducible installs
- [x] Provide cross-platform setup script to automate environment creation
- [x] Complete tasks independently with user review
- [x] Self-reflect on outcomes using internal memory module
- [x] Persist reflections to a long-term memory log
- [x] Create `AGENTS.md` file to document agent roles
- [x] Implement file summarization module
  *Use LLM or parser to summarize the purpose and structure of each code file.*

- [x] Analyze codebase relevance to a task prompt
  *Map files to a user-defined prompt using file summaries.*

- [x] Generate code edits based on prompt
  *Create modified versions of files that fulfill task intent.*

- [x] Stage and commit edits with explanation
  *Use diffs to stage and describe changes before pushing.*

- [x] Enable multi-agent task handoff
- [x] Add prompt validation to guard against injection attacks
- [x] Run a recursive self-review loop
  *Evaluate whether code changes fulfill the original task prompt.*
- [x] Integrate linting and test validation before commits

- [x] Enable Forgekeeper to pull tasks from this file and complete them autonomously
- [x] Enhance code edit generation with real modifications
  *Replace TODO scaffolds with LLM-generated code changes.*

- [x] Connect summarization, analysis, editing, and commit modules into an end-to-end self-edit pipeline

- [x] Use stored memories to refine future task selection and execution
- [x] Generate follow-up tasks based on reflection outcomes
- [x] Summarize task success and emotional feedback into memory
- [x] Add unit tests for task insertion utility

- [x] Add “undo last task” recovery mode
  *Implemented via `TaskPipeline.undo_last_task`.*

- [x] Design multi-step planning framework for complex tasks
- [x] Implement cross-file validation for code edits
---

## Canonical Tasks

---
id: FK-103
title: Consolidate test directories (P2)
status: done
epic: R-001
owner: agent
labels: [dx, tests]
---
Move all test modules into a unified `tests/` directory and update references.

**AC**
- [x] All tests reside under `tests/`
- [x] CI and imports point to the new location

---
id: FK-104
title: Skip backend smoke test when prerequisites missing (P2)
status: done
epic: R-001
owner: agent
labels: [reliability, tooling]
---
Make `smoke_backend.py` detect missing `backend/`, `npm`, or `node` and exit gracefully. See skip logic in `tools/smoke_backend.py`.

**AC**
- [x] Smoke test exits 0 with skip message when environment absent
- [x] self_review treats skipped state as neutral
